CISA Warns Organizations About Cyberattacks Originating From Tor Network
The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) are warning enterprises about cyberattacks originating from the Tor network. Threat actors leverage the Tor network to conceal the true origin of their attacks and prevent their C2 infrastructure from being identified and shut down. Attackers use Tor to conduct malicious activities including system compromise, data exfiltration, denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, and reconnaissance. CISA recommends organizations implement measures to block and monitor Tor network traffic to identify attacks at early stages. "The use of Tor in this context allows threat actors to maintain anonymity, making it difficult for network defenders and authorities to perform system recovery and respond to cyberattacks. Organizations that don't implement measures to block or monitor Tor traffic risk being targeted by threat actors exploiting Tor to conceal their identities and intentions." "The risk of malicious activity routed through Tor targeting is unique to each organization. Organizations should determine their individual risk by assessing the likelihood of threat actors targeting their systems or data and the probability of threat actors succeeding under current mitigations and controls." CISA advises organizations to evaluate whether legitimate users require Tor access for activities. Organizations should assess mitigation measures to prevent threat actors from using Tor for malicious activities. Network defenders can utilize various network, endpoint, and security device logs to detect Tor traffic and potentially identify malicious activity involving Tor through indicator-based or behavioral analysis. Using indicator-based methods, defenders can leverage Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools and other log analysis platforms to detect traffic from and to Tor exit nodes. CISA also details mitigation measures enterprises should implement to reduce risks associated with Tor-originating attacks including: Most restrictive approach: Block all web traffic to/from public Tor entry and exit nodes. Less restrictive approach: Customize monitoring, analysis, and blocking of web traffic to/from public Tor. Hybrid approach: Block all Tor traffic for certain resources while allowing and monitoring others. Sophisticated threat actors may leverage other anonymization techniques like virtual private networks (VPNs) and configurable features within Tor such as Tor bridges and pluggable transports to evade detection and blocking. "Blocking known Tor nodes may not effectively mitigate all risks but could prevent less sophisticated actors," CISA concluded.