Summary
Qi An Xin Threat Intelligence Center recently discovered that the Xin Hailianhua (New Lotus) group, which we have been continuously tracking since mid-2022, has reactivated and is employing a novel abuse technique involving MSI files. Although MSI TRANSFORMS techniques were theoretically disclosed in 2022 [1], this is the first time we have captured such use in domestic political and enterprise-targeted APT operations.

Currently, we classify the APT-Q-31 (Hailianhua) group into two attack clusters. Through long-term observation, we found that the new and old Hailianhua groups alternate yearly in conducting espionage activities domestically. The two clusters have completely different TTPs but share attack resources. The last activity of the new Hailianhua group was at the end of 2023, exactly one year ago. The execution chain of this spear-phishing email campaign is as follows:

We recommend that political and enterprise customers deploy Tianqing EDR in both office and server zones. With cloud lookup enabled, it can detect and block generic threats.

Introduction to MST files

The Xin Hailianhua group executed the following command line via LNK:

msiexec.exe /qn /i WindowsPCHealthCheckSetup.msi TRANSFORMS=msGFG.mst

Here, WindowsPCHealthCheckSetup.msi is a legitimate installation package provided by Microsoft.

The malicious use of the MSI TRANSFORMS parameter has been introduced in overseas blogs [1]. The MST typically exports two functions: LogSetupAfterInstall and LogSetupBeforeInstall, which control the MSI installation flow.

These exported functions allow dropping additional DLLs and persistence operations:

Ultimately achieving DLL sideloading. The in-memory loaded payload is a RUST backdoor unseen for a year. Unlike 2023, attackers fully shellcoded the RUST backdoor, removing the previously used generic shellcode reflective PE loading process to enhance memory defense evasion. We also observed that most loaders authored by Xin Hailianhua use the Mingw-w64 codebase, a habit continuing from 2022 until now, whereas the older Hailianhua group’s loaders in early 2024 never used this codebase.

We will disclose Xin Hailianhua’s complex in-memory TTPs used in 2023 at an appropriate time this year.

MSI Abuse Overview

MSI, as a well-known general payload format, has been widely used by various threat actors in recent years. Analysis methods and processes have been shared by overseas vendors [2]. We provide a brief discussion on how various APT groups have used MSI exploitation over the last two years.

Media Table
APT groups like Bitter, APT-Q-27, APT-Q-15 (Darkhotel), CNC, etc., compress malicious components in CAB files, which are extracted and executed during MSI installation. This is the most common exploitation method currently, but the downside is that malicious components are dropped on disk during MSI installation, requiring attackers to have strong anti-detection capabilities.

CustomAction Table
CustomAction supports various custom operations, giving attackers ample flexibility. For example, Bitter calls a signed third-party Powershell interpreter from CustomAction to execute Powershell scripts.

APT-Q-15 (Darkhotel), targeting North Korean victims, delivered malicious Korean font MSI installers, embedding a trojan module core.dll into the CustomAction table. Unlike malicious modules inserted in the Media table, core.dll does not land on disk during MSI installation; msiexec launches a separate subprocess that loads this DLL in memory, achieving a LOLBINS effect. This also does not affect the installation of the kpkm2024.ttf font:

MST Files
So far, only the Xin Hailianhua group has been observed using this technique.

Summary
Currently, all product lines based on Qi An Xin Threat Intelligence Center data—including the Qi An Xin Threat Intelligence Platform (TIP), Tianqing, Tianyan Advanced Threat Detection System, Qi An Xin NGSOC, and Qi An Xin Situational Awareness—already support precise detection of this type of attack.